README.md, before:

 Constrained RAndom Verification Enviroment - CRAVE
====================================================

For feedback and bug reports: crave@informatik.uni-bremen.de

 Preparations
--------------

When installing directly from the git repository some additional steps are
required. These are not necessary when using the packaged source code. Both
require some packages to be installed on the system.

To get CRAVE from the git repository execute the following commands:

    git clone --recursive [crave-git-URL]

This will download crave and its direct dependencies. External dependencies
will be downloaded by the bootstrap script when executing make.

Please install the following packages to ensure the external packages will
build correctly:

* zlib and bzip2 development libraries (e.g. zlib1g-dev, libbz2-dev)
* CMake
* Python development libraries


 Editing CRAVE's Makefile
-------------------------

For now, the following line from Makefile is the only one you need to pay attention to:

    BOOSTRAP_ARGS := --systemc -b cudd -b sword -b boolector

The editable options are '--systemc' and '-b', which will be described in the following.


 SystemC Support
-----------------

You need to set the environment variable SYSTEMC_HOME to your SystemC installation 
directory (which also must contains a static library). Otherwise, CRAVE will automatically 
download and build systemc-2.3.1 from GitHub.
It is also possible to build CRAVE without SystemC support by removing the option '--systemc',
but this is not recommended.


 Other external dependencies
-----------------------

CRAVE uses the following external dependencies:

* [Boost] - you need at least version 1.50.0, set the environment variable BOOST_ROOT to your 
boost installation directory (e.g. /usr) or CRAVE will automatically download and build boost-1.50.0. 
For faster build, it is recommended to choose the first option.
* [Glog] - similarly, set GLOG_ROOT or CRAVE will automatically download and build glog.
* [Boolector] - Boolector can be disabled by removing the option '-b boolector'.
* [CUDD] - CUDD can be disabled by removing the option '-b cudd', but this is not recommended.
* [SWORD] - SWORD can be disabled by removing the option '-b sword'.
* [CVC4] - CVC4 can be enabled by adding the option '-b cvc4'. Building CVC4 takes considerable time so it is disabled by default.
* [Z3] - Z3 can be enabled by adding the option '-b z3'. Building Z3 takes considerable time so it is disabled by default.
* [Boolector] - Boolector can be disabled by removing the option '-b boolector'.

Please make sure that at least one SMT backend ([SWORD], [Z3], [CVC4] or [Boolector]) is enabled.


 Build and install CRAVE
-------------------------

1. Call 'make' to build CRAVE, the dependencies should
   automatically download and build.
2. Call 'make test', all tests should pass (with very few execeptions).
3. Call 'make install'.

To clean CRAVE you can delete the build directory and call 'make' again.

 Examples
----------

You will find several examples in the examples/ directory. These will
demonstrate the core features of CRAVE using CRAVE-2.0 API (subdirectory crave2_api/)
as well as the new experimental API (subdirectory experimental_api/, requires compiler
support for C++11). The basic examples are available in both APIs as listed below:

  * ex1_seed_dist              : global seed and simple distribution.
  * ex2_constr_ref             : constraints and references.
  * ex3_inh_soft_next          : constraint inheritance, soft constraints and custom next()/randomize().
  * ex4_constr_mng             : enable/disable constraints.
  * ex5_vec_constr             : vector constraints.
  * ex6_inline_gen             : inline generator.
  * ex7_rand_enum              : constraints on enumeration types.
  * ex8_make_expression        : expression layer usage.

to execute these examples look into the build/examples directory.
See also the other examples and the test cases in crave/tests, which cover all implemented features.


 Configuration file
-----------------------

CRAVE will try to find and if not found, create a configuration file crave.cfg in 
the executing directory. The default configuration is shown in the following:

    <crave>
    	<backend>auto</backend>
    	<seed>0</seed>
    </crave>
    <logger>
    	<filename>crave</filename>
    	<directory>./logs</directory>
    	<level>0</level>
    	<filesize>100</filesize>
    </logger>

The value 'auto' means that CRAVE will automatically select a backend among 
the available SMT solvers. Other possible values are 'boolector', 'cvc4', 'z3' and 'sword'.
Change the seed to a positive integer, if you want to use this integer as the fixed seed.


 Known issues
--------------

In the default configuration CRAVE will use SWORD as one of its SMT backends.
SWORD is provided as binary program for Linux x86 and x86_64 platforms. However,
this version of SWORD is incompatible with RHEL 5 or derived operating systems (e.g. 
CentOS 5). On such systems, SWORD must be disabled before building CRAVE by editing
'-b sword' out of the Makefile.

[Boost]: http://www.boost.org
[CUDD]:  http://vlsi.colorado.edu/~fabio/CUDD/
[SWORD]: http://www.informatik.uni-bremen.de/agra/eng/sword.php
[Z3]: https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3
[Boolector]: http://fmv.jku.at/boolector/
[CVC4]: http://cvc4.cs.nyu.edu
[Glog]: https://code.google.com/p/google-glog/

Commit message:

improve doxygen documentation (in most of the classes meant to be used by users), joint work with @nbruns and @dansrgel [ci skip]

README.md, after:

 Constrained RAndom Verification Enviroment - CRAVE
====================================================

For feedback and bug reports: crave@informatik.uni-bremen.de

 Preparations
--------------

When installing directly from the git repository some additional steps are
required. These are not necessary when using the packaged source code. Both
require some packages to be installed on the system.

To get CRAVE from the git repository execute the following commands:

    git clone --recursive [crave-git-URL]

This will download crave and its direct dependencies. External dependencies
will be downloaded by the bootstrap script when executing make.

Please install the following packages to ensure the external packages will
build correctly:

* zlib and bzip2 development libraries (e.g. zlib1g-dev, libbz2-dev)
* CMake (at least v2.8.9)


 Editing CRAVE's Makefile
-------------------------

For now, the following line from Makefile is the only one you need to pay attention to:

    BOOSTRAP_ARGS := --systemc -b cudd -b sword -b boolector

The editable options are '--systemc' and '-b', which will be described in the following.


 SystemC Support
-----------------

You need to set the environment variable SYSTEMC_HOME to your SystemC installation 
directory (which also must contains a static library). Otherwise, CRAVE will automatically 
download and build systemc-2.3.1 from GitHub.
It is also possible to build CRAVE without SystemC support by removing the option '--systemc',
but this is not recommended.


 Other external dependencies
-----------------------

CRAVE uses the following external dependencies:

* [Boost] - you need at least version 1.50.0, set the environment variable BOOST_ROOT to your 
boost installation directory (e.g. /usr) or CRAVE will automatically download and build boost-1.50.0. 
For faster build, it is recommended to choose the first option.
* [Glog] - similarly, set GLOG_ROOT or CRAVE will automatically download and build glog.
* [Boolector] - Boolector can be disabled by removing the option '-b boolector'.
* [CUDD] - CUDD can be disabled by removing the option '-b cudd', but this is not recommended.
* [SWORD] - SWORD can be disabled by removing the option '-b sword'.
* [CVC4] - CVC4 can be enabled by adding the option '-b cvc4'. Building CVC4 takes considerable time so it is disabled by default.
* [Z3] - Z3 can be enabled by adding the option '-b z3'. Building Z3 takes considerable time so it is disabled by default.
* [STP] - STP can be enabled by adding the option '-b stp'. Building STP takes considerable time so it is disabled by default.
* [Yices2] - Yices2 can be enabled by adding the option '-b yices2'. Building Yices2 takes considerable time so it is disabled by default.

Please make sure that at least one SMT backend is enabled.


 Build and install CRAVE
-------------------------

1. Call 'make' to build CRAVE, the dependencies should
   automatically download and build.
2. Call 'make test', all tests should pass (with very few execeptions).
3. Call 'make install'.

To clean CRAVE you can delete the build directory (e.g. 'rm -Rf build') and call 'make' again.

 Examples
----------

You will find several examples in the examples/ directory. These will
demonstrate the core features of CRAVE using CRAVE-2.0 API (subdirectory crave2_api/)
as well as the new experimental API (subdirectory experimental_api/, requires compiler
support for C++11). The basic examples are available in both APIs as listed below:

  * ex1_seed_dist              : global seed and simple distribution.
  * ex2_constr_ref             : constraints and references.
  * ex3_inh_soft_next          : constraint inheritance, soft constraints and custom next()/randomize().
  * ex4_constr_mng             : enable/disable constraints.
  * ex5_vec_constr             : vector constraints.
  * ex6_inline_gen             : inline generator.
  * ex7_rand_enum              : constraints on enumeration types.
  * ex8_make_expression        : expression layer usage.

to execute these examples look into the build/examples directory.
See also the other examples and the test cases in crave/tests, which cover all implemented features.

 Documentation
-------------------------

The doxygen documentation can be generated in doc/crave-doxygen by calling 'make doxygen'.

 Configuration file
-----------------------

CRAVE will try to find and if not found, create a configuration file crave.cfg in 
the executing directory. The default configuration is shown in the following:

    <crave>
    	<backend>auto</backend>
    	<seed>0</seed>
    </crave>
    <logger>
    	<filename>crave</filename>
    	<directory>./logs</directory>
    	<level>0</level>
    	<filesize>100</filesize>
    </logger>

The value 'auto' means that CRAVE will automatically select a backend among 
the available SMT solvers. Other possible values are for example 'boolector', 'sword', 'z3', etc.
Change the seed to a positive integer, if you want to use this integer as the fixed seed.
For further information, please refer to the doxygen documentation.

 Known issues
--------------

In the default configuration CRAVE will use SWORD as one of its SMT backends.
SWORD is provided as binary program for Linux x86 and x86_64 platforms. However,
this version of SWORD is incompatible with RHEL 5 or derived operating systems (e.g. 
CentOS 5). On such systems, SWORD must be disabled before building CRAVE by editing
'-b sword' out of the Makefile.

[Boost]: http://www.boost.org
[CUDD]:  http://vlsi.colorado.edu/~fabio/CUDD/
[SWORD]: http://www.informatik.uni-bremen.de/agra/eng/sword.php
[Z3]: https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3
[Boolector]: http://fmv.jku.at/boolector/
[CVC4]: http://cvc4.cs.nyu.edu
[Yices2]: http://yices.csl.sri.com/
[STP]: https://github.com/stp/stp
[Glog]: https://code.google.com/p/google-glog/
